121 Photos
Photos: Wildfires continue to wreak havoc on Gatlinburg
Estimates place the number of homes and businesses damaged or destroyed at more than 700 so far — about 300 inside the Gatlinburg city limits and another 400 in neighboring
Pigeon Forge
and unincorporated communities such as Wears Valley and Cobbly Nob. A map will be posted on Facebook of damaged properties, officials said, with updates in real time.
Forecasts of more high-speed winds Thursday increase the odds of further fire outbreaks, emergency workers warned, and the less than 2 inches of rain that's fallen since Tuesday hasn't helped to put out hot spots.
"We don't want any of our recent precipitation to give any false sense of security, because fire is a tremendous beast," Miller said.
Alice Hagler, missing from Chalet Village, a collection of rental cabins, was one of the three dead found in that neighborhood,  her son has confirmed . Authorities have not released the names of any of the dead, and Gatlinburg Police Chief Randy Brackins referred all questions to the Tennessee Bureau of Investigation.
Two more bodies were found in the North Chalet Village — those were identified by family as the Summers couple — and another was found in a room at the Travelers Motel off
U.S. Highway 321
. Three more bodies had been found by Wednesday afternoon — all three in a home on Campbell Lead Road.
Authorities have not provided a list of residents unaccounted for. The TBI has set up a hotline for people to call at 800-TBI-FIND if they believe a loved one is missing. The hotline has received nearly 100 calls over the past 24 hours, with agents following up about 70 leads from those calls, TBI spokeswoman Leslie Earhart said. She gave no details on any specific cases.
Eighty people have been treated at LeConte Medical Center for fire-related injuries, authorities said, with some still hospitalized. The three Summers sons suffered burns serious enough to need treatment at the Vanderbilt University Medical Center in Nashville.
Fire officials said the damage total includes about 300 buildings inside the Gatlinburg city limits and another 400 in neighboring Pigeon Forge and outlying unincorporated communities. That's on top of more than 17,100 acres consumed since the blaze began last week in the remote Chimney Tops area of the nearby Great Smoky Mountains National Park.
