wiki code
Cancel
Set
Washington
Nation
Right Now
Information
Share This Story!
Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about
Death toll in Tennessee wildfires rises to 11
The historic wildfire tore through the Great Smoky Mountains National Park this week.
Post to Facebook
Death toll in Tennessee wildfires rises to 11   The historic wildfire tore through the Great Smoky Mountains National Park this week.    Check out this story on USATODAY.com: http://usat.ly/2gRm4tx
CancelSend
Sent!
A link has been sent to your friend's email address.
Posted!
5
Join the Nation's Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Death toll in Tennessee wildfires rises to 11
USA Today Network Tyler Whetstone, Knoxville (Tenn.) News Sentinel 6:17 a.m. EST December 2, 2016
hPlay Video
captions off, selected
Foreground
Background
Window
A fire has scorched 17,000 acres and killed several people in eastern Tennessee. At least 10 killed In Smoky Mountain wildfire, others still missing. Time
Rebecca Bell sifts through the remains of a car outside of her home, Thursday, Dec. 1, 2016, in Gatlinburg, Tenn. Bell and her family evacuated on Monday when smoke started building up.(Photo: Andrew Nelles / The Tennessean)
GATLINBURG, Tenn. — The death toll stands at 11 in the historic wildfire that tore through the
Great Smoky Mountains National Park
and this resort town earlier in the week, with no identities of the dead confirmed by officials so far and the search still on for others, authorities said Thursday.
Tennessee Emergency Management Agency
spokesman Dean Flener said he'd been notified Thursday night of the most recent death. He said he had no specifics, including where the body was found or whether the person died in a hospital.
Authorities haven't said whether they'll be forced to rely on dental records to identify the remains found.
In Memphis, family announced that Jon and Janet Summers had been confirmed among the dead. The couple and their three grown sons were vacationing outside Gatlinburg and got separated as they fled the flames. The three sons have been recovering from burns in a Nashville hospital.
Gatlinburg Police Chief Randy Brackins fought back tears at a morning news conference as he described the crawling pace of the process.
"It's one of the most difficult things you can imagine," he said. "I know you're frustrated. If it were my family members, I'd be frustrated."
Firefighters and emergency crews continue to work their way through fire-ravaged remote areas of Gatlinburg and surrounding Sevier County amid blocked roads, downed power lines, fallen trees and mudslides. Two of the four zones searched stood at 80% and 90% complete Thursday morning, with the other two expected to be complete by nightfall, Gatlinburg Fire Chief Greg Miller said.
Aerial video shows homes and trees damaged in wildfires in Gatlinburg, Tennessee. Officials say crews discovered the remains of more people as they searched through rubble, bringing the death toll to 11. (Dec. 2) AP
About 200 firefighters, including various crews from agencies across the state, remain on the ground, with about 20% of the force still fighting flames and the rest focused on the search, he said. National Guardsmen and
Tennessee Highway Patrol
troopers fanned out to help conduct health and welfare checks at 74 homes.
"We're never going to give up hope. I will always hold out hope of a rescue," the fire chief said. "But now we are at hour 65 since the beginning of the fires. We have to come to the realization that the potential is great it will be more of a recovery (of corpses) than a rescue."
Some of the searchers have lost homes and family members of their own, and most refused to go home despite being told to take breaks, Miller said.
Photographer Brandon Reese and his work partner walked through the fire that scorched the town of Gatlinburg, Tennessee, classifying it as 'an apocalyptic wasteland.' USA TODAY NETWORK
"Just like me, just like them and just like you, we've never seen anything like this before," he said. "Most people are numb, but they care about finding these people. They're sleeping on the floor. They don't want to go home."
A link has been posted to your Facebook feed.
Richard T. Ramsey and Sue Ramsey hold hands while looking at the skyline from the remains of their house of 41 years, Thursday, Dec. 1, 2016, in Gatlinburg, Tenn. They safely evacuated from their home as fire approached Monday evening.  Andrew Nelles / The Tennessean
Replay
Photos: Wildfires continue to wreak havoc on Gatlinburg
Estimates place the number of homes and businesses damaged or destroyed at more than 700 so far — about 300 inside the Gatlinburg city limits and another 400 in neighboring
Pigeon Forge
and unincorporated communities such as Wears Valley and Cobbly Nob. A map will be posted on Facebook of damaged properties, officials said, with updates in real time.
Forecasts of more high-speed winds Thursday increase the odds of further fire outbreaks, emergency workers warned, and the less than 2 inches of rain that's fallen since Tuesday hasn't helped to put out hot spots.
"We don't want any of our recent precipitation to give any false sense of security, because fire is a tremendous beast," Miller said.
Alice Hagler, missing from Chalet Village, a collection of rental cabins, was one of the three dead found in that neighborhood,  her son has confirmed . Authorities have not released the names of any of the dead, and Gatlinburg Police Chief Randy Brackins referred all questions to the Tennessee Bureau of Investigation.
Two more bodies were found in the North Chalet Village — those were identified by family as the Summers couple — and another was found in a room at the Travelers Motel off
U.S. Highway 321
. Three more bodies had been found by Wednesday afternoon — all three in a home on Campbell Lead Road.
Authorities have not provided a list of residents unaccounted for. The TBI has set up a hotline for people to call at 800-TBI-FIND if they believe a loved one is missing. The hotline has received nearly 100 calls over the past 24 hours, with agents following up about 70 leads from those calls, TBI spokeswoman Leslie Earhart said. She gave no details on any specific cases.
Eighty people have been treated at LeConte Medical Center for fire-related injuries, authorities said, with some still hospitalized. The three Summers sons suffered burns serious enough to need treatment at the Vanderbilt University Medical Center in Nashville.
Fire officials said the damage total includes about 300 buildings inside the Gatlinburg city limits and another 400 in neighboring Pigeon Forge and outlying unincorporated communities. That's on top of more than 17,100 acres consumed since the blaze began last week in the remote Chimney Tops area of the nearby Great Smoky Mountains National Park.
A link has been posted to your Facebook feed.
Cars burn in front of the main entrance of the Westgate Smoky Mountain Resort in Gatlinburg on Tuesday, Nov. 29, 2016, during the middle of the wildfire that ravaged Sevier County.  Brandon Reese / For The Tennessean
Replay
Photos: Inside the middle of the Gatlinburg wildfire
Investigators suspect that fire to be "human-caused," park Superintendent Cassius Cash said. The fire continued to rage through brush, deadwood and fallen leaves Thursday, and park officials warned recent rains haven't done enough to relieve the four-month drought that made the fire possible.
"The fire is not out," said Mark Jamieson, chief of the fire management team for the park. "It is just knocked down."
The U.S Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives has joined the "initial stages" of the investigation into the fire's cause, ATF spokesman Michael Knight said. That involvement doesn't necessarily mean the probe will lead to any arrests, he said.
Since the fire's start Nov. 23 on the Chimney Tops trail, the flames have spread to more than 6,200 acres outside the park. By Monday morning, the flames had spread by embers carried on the wind to the Twin Creeks community but didn't appear to pose an immediate threat to the city, Miller said.
“The fire is not out. It is just knocked down.”
Mark Jamieson, fire management chief, Great Smoky Mountains National Park
That changed by 6 p.m. when wind speeds doubled to more than 90 mph, toppling power lines and scattering embers for miles, he said.
"We went from nothing to over 20-plus structure fires in a matter of minutes," the fire chief said. "I don't have a great understanding of it myself, because it's so unfathomable."
The fire displaced more than 14,000 residents from Gatlinburg alone, many of whom fled home Monday night in the dark with nothing more than what they could carry. Most have found lodging with friends or family.
The head count at emergency shelters Wednesday night had fallen to 240 people, according to the American Red Cross.
Authorities have reopened access to Gatlinburg from the post office to the eastern city limits and hope to reopen the Parkway and River Road by Wednesday, City Manager Cindy Ogle said. Side streets will reopen later, she said.
A curfew will be in place again Thursday from 6 p.m. to 6 a.m.
A link has been posted to your Facebook feed.
Dec 9, 2016; Gatlinburg, TN, USA; Visitors crowd the streets as Gatlinburg, Tenn reopens to the public nearly two weeks after a devastating wildfire killed 14 people, injured 176 and burned more than 2,400 structures. Mandatory Credit: Amy Smotherman Burgess/Knoxville News Sentinel via USA TODAY NETWORK  Amy Smotherman Burgess, Knoxville News Sentinel-USA TODA
Replay
Gatlinburg Fire from the Air and on the Ground
Gatlinburg Mayor Mike Werner, who lost his home and business in the fire, said the city's spirit still stands tall.
"Gatlinburg is the people," he said. "That's what Gatlinburg is. It's not the buildings. It's the people."
Besides the search for missing loved ones, calls continue to come in about missing pets. Authorities have asked that information on specific animals be provided to the county humane society at sevierhumane.org or on the society's Facebook page.
The Red Cross still has an abundance of food, water, clothing and other items, and has asked people to make only monetary donations for now. Donations may be made by calling 866-586-4483 or 865-430-7384.
A Pigeon Forge business donated $100,000 to relief efforts Wednesday, and country music icon Dolly Parton, Sevier County's most famous native, pledged to donate $1,000 per month for six months to every family who lost a home in the fire.
U.S. senators Bob Corker and Lamar Alexander said they would work with local authorities to ensure funding from the Federal Emergency Management Agency was timely and useful. They plan to tour areas hit by the fire Friday.
The state Department of Labor will work with local agencies to help expedite applications for unemployment insurance, Sevier County Mayor Larry Waters said. Insurance adjusters will be on hand as well.
Follow Tyler Whetstone on Twitter: @tyler_whetstone
WILDFIRES WREAK HAVOC IN TENNESSEEThese devastating photos show Gatlinburg fires up close | 0:49
Photographer Brandon Reese and his work partner walked through the fire that scorched the town of Gatlinburg, Tennessee, classifying it as 'an apocalyptic wasteland.' USA TODAY NETWORK
1 of 16
Skip in Skipu
WILDFIRES WREAK HAVOC IN TENNESSEERaw: Aerial Video shows Tennessee homes in ashes | 0:58
Aerial video shows homes and trees damaged in wildfires in Gatlinburg, Tennessee. Officials say crews discovered the remains of more people as they searched through rubble, bringing the death toll to 11. (Dec. 2) AP
2 of 16
Skip in Skipu
WILDFIRES WREAK HAVOC IN TENNESSEEAt least 10 killed in Smoky Mountain wildfire | 0:55
A fire has scorched 17,000 acres and killed several people in eastern Tennessee. At least 10 killed In Smoky Mountain wildfire, others still missing. Time
3 of 16
Skip in Skipu
WILDFIRES WREAK HAVOC IN TENNESSEEMayor: 'Heart' of Tenn. City Intact After Fire | 1:45
Officials are discussing re-opening a Tennessee city later this week after wildfires forced the evacuation of thousands. "The downtown area is the pulse, the heart of the city. Thankfully it’s intact," said Gatlinburg Mayor Mike Werner. (Dec. 1) AP
4 of 16
Skip in Skipu
WILDFIRES WREAK HAVOC IN TENNESSEEAP Exclusive: National park in Tenn. after fire | 2:49
The Associated Press was allowed inside the Great Smoky Mountains National Park Thursday, to shoot video of fire damage. No other media have been allowed in the park since the fire started spreading on Monday. (Dec. 2) AP
5 of 16
Skip in Skipu
WILDFIRES WREAK HAVOC IN TENNESSEETennessee wildfires leave trail of destruction | 1:04
At least seven people have been killed in Tennessee's devastating wildfires, and others are still missing. USA TODAY NETWORK
6 of 16
Skip in Skipu
WILDFIRES WREAK HAVOC IN TENNESSEEMayor: More bodies recovered in wildfire rubble | 1:46
A Tennessee mayor says three more bodies have been recovered after the wildfires in the Great Smoky Mountains, bringing the death toll to seven. (Nov. 30) AP
7 of 16
Skip in Skipu
WILDFIRES WREAK HAVOC IN TENNESSEEStepbrothers film harrowing escape from TN Fire | 0:56
Thousands of people made "hell-like" escapes from wildfires that burned hundreds of homes, destroyed a resort in the Great Smoky Mountains and killed three people. Two stepbrothers caught their harrowing escape on their iPhone. (Nov. 29) AP
8 of 16
Skip in Skipu
WILDFIRES WREAK HAVOC IN TENNESSEEOver 100 Structures Damaged in Tenn. Wildfire | 2:08
City officials say that hundreds of homes and other buildings were damaged or destroyed by flames from wildfires in Tennessee. (Nov. 29) AP
9 of 16
Skip in Skipu
WILDFIRES WREAK HAVOC IN TENNESSEEGeneral manager: 'All is fine' at Ripley's Aquarium | 0:51
Ryan Desear, general manager of Ripley's Aquarium of the Smokies, talks about the Gatlinburg fire on Tuesday, Nov. 29, 2016. Michael Patrick
10 of 16
Skip in Skipu
WILDFIRES WREAK HAVOC IN TENNESSEEGatlinburg homes, hotels ablaze as wildfires spread in the south | 0:54
But no deaths reported in Smoky Mountains blazes in Tenn. Time
11 of 16
Skip in Skipu
WILDFIRES WREAK HAVOC IN TENNESSEEEvacuations ordered as Tennessee wildfires rage | 1:36
Tennessee officials say thousands of residents and visitors in the Gatlinburg area have been evacuated and hundreds of structures have been damaged and destroyed by spreading wildfires. (Nov. 29) AP
12 of 16
Skip in Skipu
WILDFIRES WREAK HAVOC IN TENNESSEEArrowmont executive director: Most of school saved from fire | 0:59
Bill May, executive director of Arrowmont School of Arts and Crafts, says Tuesday, Nov. 29, 2016, that most of the school's property was saved from the fires in Gatlinburg. Michael Patrick/News Sentinel
13 of 16
Skip in Skipu
WILDFIRES WREAK HAVOC IN TENNESSEEFire forces Ripley's Aquarium staff to leave animals behind | 1:23
Ripley's Aquarium of the Smokies is home to nearly 11,000 animals, including some endangered species. The general manager says staff were forced to evacuate, but would rather sacrifice their own lives to save the animals. WBIR
14 of 16
Skip in Skipu
WILDFIRES WREAK HAVOC IN TENNESSEEDramatic escape from Tennessee wildfire caught on camera | 1:28
As everything around them burned, two stepbrothers captured their harrowing drive to safety in Gatlinburg, Tennessee. USA TODAY NETWORK
15 of 16
Skip in Skipu
WILDFIRES WREAK HAVOC IN TENNESSEEFirst responders assembled for Sevier County wildfire response | 0:23
First responders have gathered at
Gatlinburg-Pittman High School
on Tuesday, Nov. 29, 2016, to aid in the Sevier County wildfire response. Amy Smotherman Burgess/News Sentinel
16 of 16
v
0:58
v
0:55
v
1:45
v
2:49
v
1:04
v
1:46
v
0:56
v
2:08
v
0:51
v
0:54
Gatlinburg homes, hotels ablaze as wildfires spread in the south
v
1:36
v
0:59
v
1:23
v
1:28
v
0:23
Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/2gRm4tx
NEVER MISS OUT
The Short List
Let us bring the headlines to you every night. Stay current and catch up on the biggest stories of the day.
We're sorry.
Please try again soon, or contact Customer Service at 1-800-872-0001
