0 Comments
Arsenal players react during their EFL Cup defeat to Southampton on Wednesday night  Credit: PA
After Arsenal's limp 2-0 defeat by Southampton in the EFL Cup quarter-final on Wednesday, it was easy to criticise the team and manager Arsene Wenger. 
Wenger had made 10 changes for the match, and the side inevitably looked disjointed at times. 
But aside from the knee-jerk instinct to condemn a team that has just been outplayed and lost a match, can anyone honestly say they think Arsenal going out of the EFL Cup is a major setback?
Arsenal were outclassed by Southampton on Wednesday
Does anyone really believe that winning the EFL Cup would alter Wenger's standing with the supporters, or affect his legacy when he leaves?
You can say football is all about winning trophies but put it this way: in seven out of the last 10 seasons, the manager who has won the League Cup has been sacked within a year. 
Kenny Dalglish, Michael Laudrup, Juande Ramos and even Jose Mourinho can tell you that the League Cup does not count as much of a defence when your chairman is about to hand out a P45. 
Alexis Sanchez was one of many Arsenal first-team players rested on Wednesday
Even Wenger himself was given little slack for winning consecutive FA Cups between 2014 and 2015, so it's unlikely the lesser regarded League Cup would satisfy supporters. And imagine the hand-wringing if Wenger had played a full strength team against Southampton and one of Mesut Ozil and Alexis Sanchez had got injured. As it was the likes of Lucas Perez and Kieran Gibbs got valuable minutes as they try and fight for a regular place in the first team. 
Fundamentally Arsenal could do with having a slight reduction on their workload. They have already played 21 matches this season (the joint most in the top flight), five more than Chelsea, and are hopeful of runs in the FA Cup and the Champions League while battling with the customary cocktail of injuries. 
The comparison with Chelsea is particularly pertinent because Antonio Conte has demonstrated how much of a difference not playing midweek football can make to the preparation of a team. With no European football and an early EFL Cup exit, Conte has been able to introduce a whole new system midway through the season and name pretty much the same team every week. Jurgen Klopp is enjoying similar benefits from no European football at Liverpool, as his predecessor Brendan Rodgers did in 2013-14 and likewise Claudio Ranieri at Leicester last season. 
