As TV crews and reporters camped out in the lobby of Trump Tower on Monday, recording VIP arrivals in hopes of detecting new members of the incoming Donald Trump administration, a middle-aged corporate executive drew little notice.

Mr. Hayes’ pilgrimage to Trump Tower ended roughly two weeks of intensive talks between representatives of Mr. Pence and United Technologies, the Farmington, Conn., parent of air conditioner and furnace maker Carrier. The agreement was touted by both sides Thursday.

People familiar with the negotiations said the company and Mr. Pence’s team also discussed a wide range of priorities, including United Technologies’ interest in a corporate tax overhaul, and regulations the company feels have been a burden to its business.

Mr. Pence admitted on Thursday that he hadn’t thought the company would reverse course, saying it was clear at a March meeting with Carrier officials that “the die was cast.” Instead of keeping the factory open, he negotiated in the spring for the company to pay back about $1.5 million in city and state incentives.

The company’s February decision to close a Carrier plant in Indianapolis became a national issue after a video of a manager announcing the layoffs went viral. Mr. Trump seized on the moment to rally supporters as part of his campaign to protect U.S. manufacturing jobs. He brought it up days later at a Republican presidential debate.

At a March 7 rally in Concord, N.C., Mr. Trump said he would intervene and call Carrier’s CEO. “Somehow it is not presidential for the president of the United States to call up some guy at Carrier, and say, ‘This is the president of the United States.’ Who cares?” he told supporters.

During the summer, however, with Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton leading in most national polls, the company and its union workers moved ahead with plans to wind down operations over three years. Workers from Mexico would visit to measure equipment that was being moved to Monterrey.

In July, the union worked out a severance agreement with the company.

But after his surprise election, Mr. Trump made good on his campaign pledge and phoned Mr. Hayes.

“I called Greg and I said, ‘It’s really important we have to do something because you have a lot of people leaving,’” Mr. Trump said Thursday, adding that he dismissed the CEO when Mr. Hayes responded that he had already built a new facility in Mexico. “Rent it. Sell it or knock it down. I don’t care.”

The deal that emerged this week is a relatively standard package of state incentives, according to people familiar with the agreement. In exchange for $7 million in tax breaks, Carrier will invest $16 million in its facilities in the state.

The company will keep about 800 jobs it had planned to move out of the Indianapolis plant, but it still plans to move 600 jobs from that factory to Mexico. United Technologies also will proceed with plans to close a second plant in Huntington, Ind., that makes electronic controls, moving 700 other jobs to Mexico.

In addition to Carrier, United Technologies makes Pratt & Whitney jet engines and Otis elevators. It employs about 200,000 people, about one-third of them in the U.S.

The federal government is also an important customer. The U.S. military accounts for about 10% of United Technologies’ $56 billion in annual sales, for products like the engine for the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter.

Sen. Ron Wyden of Oregon, the top Democrat on the Finance Committee, said he would be asking more about the Carrier deal and said he would inquire whether there were promises about defense contracts.

Thursday’s plant tour for Mr. Trump was a victory lap to show that he could deliver on campaign promises. He used the moment to double down on another one: building a wall on the Mexican border. “Trust me, we’re going to build a wall.”

Corrections & Amplifications: 

 An earlier version of this article incorrectly stated Mr. Trump spoke at a March 7 rally in Concord, N.H. (Dec. 2)
