We use cookies and browser capability checks to help us deliver our online services, including to learn if you enabled Flash for video or ad blocking. By using our website or by closing this message box, you agree to our use of browser capability checks, and to our use of cookies as described in our
Cookie Policy.
As TV crews and reporters camped out in the lobby of Trump Tower on Monday, recording VIP arrivals in hopes of detecting new members of the incoming
Donald Trump
administration, a middle-aged corporate executive drew little notice.
Greg Hayes,
chief executive of
United Technologies
Corp., wasn’t there to see Mr. Trump. He rode the gold-colored elevators to see Vice President-elect
Mike Pence,
and the two men then shook hands on a deal that seemed impossible months earlier, say people familiar with the matter.
The Indiana governor
was offering $7 million over 10 years
to encourage the company to keep in the state roughly one-third of the 2,100 jobs it planned to ship to Mexico. United Technologies would also get credit from the state for keeping 300 research and headquarters jobs that it didn’t plan to shift abroad.
Mr. Hayes’ pilgrimage to Trump Tower ended roughly two weeks of intensive talks between representatives of Mr. Pence and United Technologies, the Farmington, Conn., parent of air conditioner and furnace maker Carrier. The agreement was touted by both sides Thursday.
People familiar with the negotiations said the company and Mr. Pence’s team also discussed a wide range of priorities, including United Technologies’ interest in a corporate tax overhaul, and regulations the company feels have been a burden to its business.
More
Mr. Pence admitted on Thursday that he hadn’t thought the company would reverse course, saying it was clear at a March meeting with Carrier officials that “the die was cast.” Instead of keeping the factory open, he negotiated in the spring for the company to pay back about $1.5 million in city and state incentives.
The company’s February decision to close a Carrier plant in Indianapolis became a national issue after a video of a manager announcing the layoffs went viral. Mr. Trump seized on the moment to rally supporters as part of his campaign to protect U.S. manufacturing jobs. He brought it up days later at a Republican presidential debate.
At a March 7 rally in Concord, N.C., Mr. Trump said he would intervene and call Carrier’s CEO. “Somehow it is not presidential for the president of the United States to call up some guy at Carrier, and say, ‘This is the president of the United States.’ Who cares?” he told supporters.
During the summer, however, with Democratic nominee
Hillary Clinton
leading in most national polls, the company and its union workers moved ahead with plans to wind down operations over three years. Workers from Mexico would visit to measure equipment that was being moved to Monterrey.
In July, the union worked out a severance agreement with the company.
Your browser does not support HTML5 video.
0:00 / 0:00
Skip Ad
in 15
Click For Sound
After publicly shaming Carrier Corp. throughout the presidential campaign, Donald Trump announced a deal on Thursday with the company’s parent to keep 1,000 jobs in Indiana in exchange for state tax breaks. Is this model repeatable with other companies? WSJ’s Jason Bellini has #TheShortAnswer. Photo: Getty
.
But after his surprise election, Mr. Trump made good on his campaign pledge and phoned Mr. Hayes.
“I called Greg and I said, ‘It’s really important we have to do something because you have a lot of people leaving,’” Mr. Trump said Thursday, adding that he dismissed the CEO when Mr. Hayes responded that he had already built a new facility in Mexico. “Rent it. Sell it or knock it down. I don’t care.”
The deal that emerged this week is a relatively standard package of state incentives, according to people familiar with the agreement. In exchange for $7 million in tax breaks, Carrier will invest $16 million in its facilities in the state.
The company will keep about 800 jobs it had planned to move out of the Indianapolis plant, but it still plans to move 600 jobs from that factory to Mexico. United Technologies also will proceed with plans to close a second plant in Huntington, Ind., that makes electronic controls, moving 700 other jobs to Mexico.
In addition to Carrier, United Technologies makes Pratt & Whitney jet engines and Otis elevators. It employs about 200,000 people, about one-third of them in the U.S.
ENLARGE
.
The federal government is also an important customer. The U.S. military accounts for about 10% of United Technologies’ $56 billion in annual sales, for products like the engine for the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter.
Sen.
Ron Wyden
of Oregon, the top Democrat on the Finance Committee, said he would be asking more about the Carrier deal and said he would inquire whether there were promises about defense contracts.
Thursday’s plant tour for Mr. Trump was a victory lap to show that he could deliver on campaign promises. He used the moment to double down on another one: building a wall on the Mexican border. “Trust me, we’re going to build a wall.”
This copy is for your personal, non-commercial use only. Distribution and use of this material are governed by our Subscriber Agreement and by copyright law. For non-personal use or to order multiple copies, please contact Dow Jones Reprints at 1-800-843-0008 or visit www.djreprints.com.
