Victoria&#x27;s Secret Angel Jasmine Tookes&#x27; Diet,Workout Routine 
NYMag.com 
Daily Intelligencer 
Vulture 
The Cut 
Science of Us 
Select All 
Grub Street 
The Strategist 
Log In 
Register 
My Account 
My Profile 
My Comments 
My Reviews 
My Friends 
Sign Out 
FOLLOW: 
Facebook 
Twitter 
Instagram 
The Cut 
Fashions
Runway 
Street Style 
Designers 
Fame 
Beauty 
Goods 
Love &amp; War 
Search 
Sections 
Fashions 
Fame 
Beauty 
Goods 
Love &amp; War 
Plus 
Runway 
Street Style 
Designers 
Sites 
NYMag.com 
Daily Intelligencer 
Vulture 
Science of Us 
Grub Street 
Bedford &amp; Bowery 
Like Us 
Follow Us 
Follow Us 
Ad will collapse in
seconds&hellip;
CLOSE 
Popular on The Cut 
wellness theories 
December 1, 2016 
12/01/2016 
12:04 p.m. 
Victoria’s Secret Model Jasmine Tookes on Eating Hot Wings and Not Doing Cardio 
By 
Jasmine Tookes as told to Kathleen Hou 
Share 
Facebook icon Share 
Twitter icon Tweet 
Google Plus icon Share 
Pinterest icon Pin It 
Email icon Email 
Comment icon Comment 
Print icon 
Print 
Jasmine Tookes. 
Photo: Getty Images 
Five years ago, the Cut featured Jasmine Tookes as “ The New Girl .” The up-and-comer talked about her enviably fast metabolism, which let her skip workouts, eat pizza, and never gain weight. Half a decade later, Tookes is a Victoria’s Secret Angel, the face of the brand’s Scandalous fragrance , and the lucky (or unlucky, depending on how you see her three-hour bra fitting ) wearer of the diamond-encrusted $3 Million Fantasy Bra. Her metabolism might still be fast, but she’s got a disciplined fitness routine now too. 
The Cut talked to Tookes about what she does to get a bigger butt, why she still works out, and how she resists comparing herself to anyone else. This year’s Victoria’s Secret show will air December 5 at 10 p.m. EST. 
How I start my day : I love to sleep in, but I feel good when I get up early and get the day started. I try to get up early, work out in the morning, and get it over and done with. If I wait for the evening, it’s not going to happen. So, I wake up and have a protein shake. I’ll put in banana, chocolate whey powder, peanut butter, strawberries, and almond milk. I like the Isopure chocolate whey powder ; it’s one of the cleanest ones. Then I’ll have breakfast, which is usually two hard-boiled eggs with spinach. 
On food : I love to eat tons of food with lots of carbs. I balance it with working out. But generally, I try to be very clean and eat healthy, and always have a lot of protein. I do have a lot of cheat days. I feel like you should be able to eat what you want. 
How I like to eat when I’m alone : Really messy. I love to have hot wings and French fries. 
What wellness means to me : It’s about being the best version of yourself and not comparing yourself to others. Everyone’s body is different. 
How wellness changed for me : Growing up, I did gymnastics for 16 years. For a while when I was modeling, I completely stopped working out. I thought, I’m fine, I don’t have to work out, I have a fast metabolism . But feeling really strong has changed my mind-set so much. You feel really good. 
How I sweat : I like to mix it up. I work out about four times a week. I love doing barre classes once a week. I do Physique 57 . Their class is less cardio-based — it’s slower. I love doing Pilates on a reformer for tightening and lightening. Twice a week, I’ll do weight training to build thighs and bulk up a little more. I’ll go to Dogpound. They really listen to you and what you want to accomplish. And for me, I want to build my legs and my butt. That’s always a goal. I love a bigger butt. 
There’s a stigma surrounding heavy weight lifting, but you just have to figure out what’s good for you. Some people might bulk up with doing heavy weight lifting, but I don’t. I would say, try it once a week. Add more lengthening and Pilates and see if you see a difference. For me, personally, because of my metabolism, I try to stay far away from cardio for my body type. I also need a lot of protein. It’s the only way for me to maintain my body. 
On weekends, it’s so hard to go work out. I remind myself to do it. I also go with friends. If I sign up with Josephine [Skriver] or Romee [Strijd] , I can’t say no. Josephine and I created an Instagram account called @Joja to show people what to do. We love working out together. We mostly do it ourselves or have a photographer snap a few images. 
Once you see improvement in your body from working out, you can’t really stop. I don’t work out based on my job. I work out based on what makes me feel good. If the client doesn’t like that, they can go find someone else. I’ve always had a very strong mind-set. I’ve never compared myself to anyone. 
My wellness shortcut : I take a little travel workout pack. You can do things in your hotel room. I bring my ankle weights so I can do a few butt workouts. If I don’t, I lose the momentum and take two to three weeks off. 
This interview has been condensed and edited. 
Tags: 
cut homepage lede wellness theories 
Victoria’s Secret Model Jasmine Tookes on Cardio, Hot Wings 
Share on Facebook 
Tweet this Story 
Top Stories Rachel Cusk’s Many Selves How Bachelor Contestants Cash In After the Show Is Over The Counselor Who’s Always Been Single 
Most Viewed Stories 
Let&rsquo;s All Take a Moment to Admire This Portrait of Kellyanne Conway That&rsquo;s Displayed in Her Living Room 
Broad City &rsquo;s Ilana Glazer Got Married When No One Was Looking 
This Dude Humping the &lsquo;Fearless Girl&rsquo; Statue Is the Actual Worst 
This Wine Forecast Will Tell You Exactly How Much Wine You Need to Buy for the Blizzard 
How Bachelor Contestants Cash In After the Show Is Over 
11 People in Interracial Relationships on the Intense Experience of Watching Get Out 
Amber Tamblyn and David Cross&rsquo;s Newborn Daughter Got a Letter From Hillary Clinton 
Seattle Jogger Attacked in Public Bathroom Fights Back 
The Counselor Who&rsquo;s Always Been Single 
Athena Calderone&rsquo;s Version of the Simple Life Is Stunning 
From Our Partners 
The Kit
'Keeping Up With The Kardashians' is Getting Cancelled 
Man Repeller
Charlotte Tilbury Doubled the Size of Leandra's&hellip; 
Martha Stewart
A Baby Shower Inspired by "Oh, the Places You'll Go!" 
powered by
PubExchange
The Latest on the Cut 
7 mins ago 
The 11 Best Sheets on Amazon, According to Hyperenthusiastic Reviewers 
From the cool bamboo sheets to the heavyweight flannel ones. 
29 mins ago 
7 Thing That Are 70 Percent Off: From a Fancy Black Dress to Suede Pants 
Including an Adam Lippes dress, Maiyet sandals, and a duvet cover meant for kids. 
12:14 p.m. 
U.S. Immigration Will Make It Very Hard for The Bachelor ’s Couple to Be Together 
These two have a tough road ahead. 
12:00 p.m. 
Personal Shopper Gets the Unglamorous Side of Fashion Exactly Right 
CGI ghosts aside, this is a pretty realistic portrayal. 
11:30 a.m. 
If You Bought This Vibrator, the Company May Owe You Money for Tracking Data 
We-Vibe came with serious security risks. 
11:30 a.m. 
I’ve Started Dressing Like My Mother 
And weirdly, I don’t mind, 
11:05 a.m. 
Kansas Lawmaker Compares Planned Parenthood to Nazi Concentration Camp 
State Senator Steve Fitzgerald made the comment after learning a donation had been made in his name. 
11:00 a.m. 
A Santal 33 Rival at Half the Price 
And none of the ubiquity. 
10:32 a.m. 
How the Editor-in-Chief of a Magazine for Female Guitarists Gets Things Done 
On trying to practice guitar more, confronting shreddy bros in the the industry, and how her community is everything. 
10:20 a.m. 
Defunding Planned Parenthood Would Lead to Thousands More Births 
Especially for low-income women. 
10:13 a.m. 
Why the Red Carpet Needs Its Own Makeover 
Celebrity makeup artist Nick Barose on the best foundations for diverse skin tones and how to get rid of “fake” diversity. 
10:00 a.m. 
U.S. Parental Leave Is Worsening in Some Ways, Says a New Survery 
The number of companies offering full pay has dropped. 
9:46 a.m. 
Let’s All Admire This Portrait of Kellyanne Conway Displayed in Her Living Room 
Who is she? 
9:32 a.m. 
Ivanka Trump Will Now Try to Sell You Affordable Jewelry Instead of Fine Jewelry 
The brand will instead focus on affordable fashion jewelry. 
9:19 a.m. 
Cara Delevingne Has Written a ‘Twisty’ Coming-of-age Novel 
It comes out in October. 
9:03 a.m. 
Andrew Keegan’s Cult Will Live to See Another Day 
Full Circle, the ’90s star’s spiritual organization, was facing serious financial trouble. 
8:30 a.m. 
11 People in Interracial Relationships on Watching Get Out 
“The next time I go to visit her family I’m going to be having nightmares.” 
8:00 a.m. 
Rachel Cusk’s Many Selves 
The
memoirist who took on the cult of motherhood? The feminist who refuses 
to laugh? The acclaimed novelist who turned autofiction on its head? 
1:45 a.m. 
Hillary Clinton Wrote to Amber Tamblyn and David Cross’s Newborn Daughter 
Thanks to the letter, we now know the name of the baby! 
12:27 a.m. 
And the Winner of The Bachelor ’s 21st Season Is … 
Did Nick Viall propose to Vanessa or Raven? 
Newsletters 
Facebook 
Twitter 
Pinterest 
Instagram 
RSS 
Feedly 
Privacy 
Terms 
Sitemap 
Media Kit 
Ad Choices 
About Us 
Contacts 
Feedback 
We&rsquo;re Hiring! 
&copy; 2017, New York Media LLC.
View all trademarks 
LOG IN 
REGISTER 
Social Account 
Facebook 
or 
Remember Me
Forgot Password? 
Sign up with a social account: 
Facebook 
Don’t worry. We will never post to your social media account without your permission. 
or create an account 
Female 
Male 
NYMag.com may email me about new site features and special offers. 
By creating an account, you agree with the Terms of Service and Privacy Policy . 
We’ve sent a registration confirmation email to . 
Please follow the instructions in the email within 48 hours to complete your registration. 
Forgot Your Password? 
Enter your email address or username and we&rsquo;ll email instructions on how to reset your password. 
This username or email is associated with a Facebook account. 
Log in with your social account: 
Facebook 
Check Your Inbox 
We&rsquo;ve sent you an email with instructions on how to reset your password. 
Choose a Username 
Your username will appear next to your comments. 
Email: 
By creating a NYMag.com account, you agree with the Terms of Service and
Privacy Policy .
You already have an account registered under . You can link your Facebook account to your existing account. 
No, Sign In 
Welcome! You are now a registered user of NYMag.com, TheCut.com, Vulture.com, ScienceOfUs.com and GrubStreet.com. 
Want more? Subscribe to our daily newsletters. 
Daily Intelligencer 
Constant news updates on politics, business, media, and real estate. 
Vulture 
Breaking news and analysis on all the latest TV, movies, music, books, theater, and art. 
The Cut 
Get the latest fashion, beauty, and shopping news and recommendations. 
No Thanks 
We're sorry. You must confirm your registration within 48 hours of submitting your registration request. Please register again. 
You are already registered. Please log in . 
Reset Your Password 
Enter a new password 
Your password has been successfully changed. 
Please log in .