Continue reading the main story
For Turkey, the Ankara attack resonated in the Turkish collective memory: Turkey lost many diplomats in the 20th century to Armenian militants in a campaign to avenge the Armenian genocide during World War I.
“Turkey is very aware of the size of this failure, and I think the government will make every effort to investigate this fully,” Sinan Ulgen, a Turkish former diplomat who is the chairman of the Center for Economics and Foreign Policy Studies, an Istanbul research organization, said of the Russian diplomat’s assassination. “I don’t expect any crisis between Turkey and Russia.”
Since the Turkish military incursion into Syria in August, Mr. Erdogan’s criticism of Russia over Syria had been muted. But Mr. Erdogan faced a dilemma: Even as he was warming to Russia, he faced a Turkish public, not to mention the Syrian refugees within Turkey, angry over Russia’s role in the bombing of Aleppo.
On Monday evening in Istanbul, just after the assassination, a group of protesters gathered outside the Russian consulate on Istiklal Avenue, the city’s largest pedestrian street. The gathering was more street theater than protest, with two men lying on the street, shrouded in bloody sheets and the Syrian flag, and surrounded by candles, to represent the killings in Aleppo.
Write A Comment
Mohammed al-Shibli, a Syrian activist who participated, said, “I felt extreme happiness when I heard the news” of the assassination.
He continued: “This is the first step in getting justice for the Syrian people. The ambassador is not innocent. He represents the foreign policy of his murderous state and thus he is a murderer, as well. Now we are waiting for revenge against everyone who shed blood in Syria.”
Correction: December 19, 2016
An earlier version of this article misidentified the government that has collaborated with Russia even though it backs a different side in the Syrian conflict. It is Turkey, not Syria.
Tim Arango reported from Istanbul, and Rick Gladstone from New York. Reporting was contributed by Ivan Nechepurenko, Oleg Matsnev and Andrew E. Kramer from Moscow, Safak Timur and Karam Shoumali from Istanbul, Sewell Chan from London, Gardiner Harris from Washington and Bryant Rousseau from New York.
A version of this article appears in print on December 20, 2016, on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Russia’s Envoy Gunned Down By Lone Turk. Order Reprints | Today's Paper | Subscribe
