Wenger had made 10 changes for the match, and the side inevitably looked disjointed at times.
But aside from the knee-jerk instinct to condemn a team that has just been outplayed and lost a match, can anyone honestly say they think Arsenal going out of the EFL Cup is a major setback?
Arsenal were outclassed by Southampton on Wednesday
Does anyone really believe that winning the EFL Cup would alter Wenger's standing with the supporters, or affect his legacy when he leaves?
You can say football is all about winning trophies but put it this way: in seven out of the last 10 seasons, the manager who has won the League Cup has been sacked within a year.
Kenny Dalglish, Michael Laudrup, Juande Ramos and even Jose Mourinho can tell you that the League Cup does not count as much of a defence when your chairman is about to hand out a P45.
Alexis Sanchez was one of many Arsenal first-team players rested on Wednesday
Even Wenger himself was given little slack for winning consecutive FA Cups between 2014 and 2015, so it's unlikely the lesser regarded League Cup would satisfy supporters. And imagine the hand-wringing if Wenger had played a full strength team against Southampton and one of Mesut Ozil and Alexis Sanchez had got injured. As it was the likes of Lucas Perez and Kieran Gibbs got valuable minutes as they try and fight for a regular place in the first team.
Fundamentally Arsenal could do with having a slight reduction on their workload. They have already played 21 matches this season (the joint most in the top flight), five more than Chelsea, and are hopeful of runs in the FA Cup and the Champions League while battling with the customary cocktail of injuries.
The comparison with Chelsea is particularly pertinent because Antonio Conte has demonstrated how much of a difference not playing midweek football can make to the preparation of a team. With no European football and an early EFL Cup exit, Conte has been able to introduce a whole new system midway through the season and name pretty much the same team every week. Jurgen Klopp is enjoying similar benefits from no European football at Liverpool, as his predecessor Brendan Rodgers did in 2013-14 and likewise Claudio Ranieri at Leicester last season.
Arsenal are still in Europe of course and will be until at least March, but now they at least have two fewer matches on the horizon.
And while Manchester United manager Mourinho has been praised by some for taking the EFL Cup seriously and naming a strong team against West Ham, he will be the first to complain about a fixture pile-up in January if the two-legged semi-final has an adverse affect on his team's League form.
Wenger's wholesale changes to the team that faced Southampton has been described by some as excessive, but it is a policy employed by many of his counterparts this season, including Saints manager Claude Puel on Wednesday night. And it's not just the likes of Conte, Klopp, Pep Guardiola and Mauricio Pochettino who have been similarly experimental, but many Championship and League One managers as well, such as Lee Johnson, who made nine changes to his Bristol City team for the visit of Hull in the fourth round.
Watch | Football fans spend the night at Man Utd stadium to watch Premier League game
08:01
It does all beg the question as to what purpose the EFL Cup serves, especially when England players look exhausted at every major tournament. There is undoubtedly a need for a winter break in the Premier League, but the powers that be could quite easily cut a possible seven matches from a team's workload by scrapping the EFL Cup.
It is easy to dismiss this point of view as big-team bias, but when you have lower-league teams like Bristol City and Preston North End, among numerous others, effectively changing their entire team for the competition, it's difficult to see who the competition is really for.
It's certainly not for Wenger, who has never won the competition. Wednesday's defeat could prove to be debilitating to Arsenal in that it ended a 19-match unbeaten run, but the burdensome scheduling in England makes a choice like the one Wenger, and the vast majority of his peers have made this season, essential.
Liverpool and Southampton could each play eight matches in January after six and seven respectively in December. It's little wonder most managers have taken evasive EFL Cup action.
