Victoria's Secret Angel Jasmine Tookes' Diet,Workout Routine   archive.is webpage capture Saved from   no other snapshots from this url   22 Dec 2016 17:53:39 UTC  All snapshots from host nymag.com  Webpage Screenshot  share download .zip report error or abuse     Reddit Voat Twitter  VKontakte Pinboard Livejournal  Facebook Google+  short link  long link  markdown  html code &lt;a href=&quot;http://archive.is/SduYw&quot;&gt;
&lt;img style=&quot;width:300px;height:200px;background-color:white&quot; src=&quot;https://archive.is/SduYw/6700819536ce478a3ea2d017e81f04876424cdad/scr.png&quot;&gt;&lt;br&gt;
Victoria's Secret Angel Jasmine Tookes' Diet,Workout Routine&lt;br&gt;
archived 22 Dec 2016 17:53:39 UTC
&lt;/a&gt;  wiki code {{cite web
| title  = Victoria's Secret Angel Jasmine Tookes' Diet,Workout Routine
| url   = http://nymag.com/thecut/2016/12/victorias-secret-angel-jasmine-tookes-diet-workout-routine.html
| date  = 2016-12-22
| archiveurl = http://archive.is/SduYw
| archivedate = 2016-12-22 }}            
NYMag.com 
Daily Intelligencer 
Vulture 
The Cut 
Science of Us 
Select All 
Grub Street 
The Strategist 
Log In | 
Register 
My Account 
My Profile 
My Comments 
My Reviews 
My Friends 
Sign Out 
FOLLOW: 
Facebook 
Twitter 
Instagram 
The Cut 
Fashions 
Runway  
Street Style  
Designers  
Fame  
Beauty  
Goods  
Love &#38; War  
Sections 
Fashions 
Fame 
Beauty 
Goods 
Love &#38; War 
Plus 
Runway 
Street Style 
Designers 
Sites 
NYMag.com 
Daily Intelligencer 
Vulture 
Science of Us 
Grub Street 
Bedford &#38; Bowery 
Like Us 
Follow Us 
Follow Us 
Ad will collapse in
seconds… 
CLOSE 
Popular on The Cut 
» 
wellness theories  
December 1, 2016 
12/01/2016 
12:04 p.m.  
Victoria’s Secret Model Jasmine Tookes on Eating Hot Wings and Not Doing Cardio 
By
Jasmine Tookes as told to Kathleen Hou 
Share  
Share  
Tweet  
Share  
Pin It  
Email  
Comment  
Print 
Jasmine Tookes.   Photo: Getty Images   
Five years ago, the Cut featured
Jasmine Tookes   
as “   The New Girl   .” The up-and-comer talked about her enviably fast metabolism, which let her skip workouts, eat pizza, and never gain weight. Half a decade later, Tookes is a Victoria’s Secret Angel, the face of the brand’s
Scandalous fragrance   , and the lucky (or unlucky, depending on how you see her
three-hour bra fitting   ) wearer of the diamond-encrusted $3 Million Fantasy Bra. Her metabolism might still be fast, but she’s got a disciplined fitness routine now too.
The Cut talked to Tookes about what she does to get a bigger butt, why she still works out, and how she resists comparing herself to anyone else. This year’s Victoria’s Secret show will air December 5 at 10 p.m. EST.  
How I start my day : I love to 
sleep in, but I feel good when I get up early and get the day started. I try to get up early, work out in the morning, and get it over and done with. If I wait for the evening, it’s not going to happen. So, I wake up and have a protein shake. I’ll put in banana, chocolate whey powder, peanut butter, strawberries, and almond milk. I like the 
Isopure chocolate whey powder ; it’s one of the cleanest ones. Then I’ll have breakfast, which is usually two hard-boiled eggs with spinach. 
On food : I love to eat tons of food with lots of carbs. I balance it with working out. But generally, I try to be very clean and eat healthy, and always have a lot of protein. I do have a lot of cheat days. I feel like you should be able to eat what you want. 
How I like to eat when I’m alone : Really messy. I love to have hot wings and French fries. 
What wellness means to me : It’s about being the best version of yourself and not comparing yourself to others. Everyone’s body is different. 
How wellness changed for me : Growing up, I did gymnastics for 16 years. For a while when I was modeling, I completely stopped working out. I thought, 
I’m fine, I don’t have to work out, I have a fast metabolism . But feeling really strong has changed my mind-set so much. You feel really good. 
How I sweat : I like to mix it up. I work out about four times a week. I love doing barre classes once a week. I do
Physique 57 . Their class is less cardio-based — it’s slower. I love doing Pilates on a reformer for tightening and lightening. Twice a week, I’ll do weight training to build thighs and bulk up a little more. I’ll go to Dogpound. They really listen to you and what you want to accomplish. And for me, I want to build my legs and my butt. That’s always a goal. I love a bigger butt. 
Story continued below 
Story continued below 
There’s a stigma surrounding heavy weight lifting, but you just have to figure out what’s good for you. Some people might bulk up with doing heavy weight lifting, but I don’t. I would say, try it once a week. Add more lengthening and Pilates and see if you see a difference. For me, personally, because of my metabolism, I try to stay far away from cardio for my body type. I also need a lot of protein. It’s the only way for me to maintain my body. 
On weekends, it’s so hard to go work out. I remind myself to do it. I also go with friends. If I sign up with
Josephine [Skriver]
or
Romee [Strijd] , I can’t say no. Josephine and I created an
Instagram account called @Joja 
to show people what to do. We love working out together. We mostly do it ourselves or have a photographer snap a few images. 
Once you see improvement in your body from working out, you can’t really stop. I don’t work out based on my job. I work out based on what makes me feel good. If the client doesn’t like that, they can go find someone else. I’ve always had a very strong mind-set. I’ve never compared myself to anyone. 
My wellness shortcut : I take a little travel workout pack. You can do things in your hotel room. I bring my ankle weights so I can do a few butt workouts. If I don’t, I lose the momentum and take two to three weeks off. 
This interview has been condensed and edited.  
Tags: 
cut homepage lede |  wellness theories  
S  h  a  r  e 
o  n 
F  a  c  e  b  o  o  k   
T  w  e  e  t 
t  h  i  s 
S  t  o  r  y   
Top Stories  It’s Too Late for Shipping, So Print These Gifts Out   Pretty Little Liars 
Star Troian Bellisario Opens Up About Wellness  This Holiday Pop-Up Is Full of Last-Minute Gifts for Your Favorite Aesthete  
Most Viewed Stories 
1 
Olivia Wilde Chopped Her Hair Because of Trump 
2 
21-Year-Old Man Kills and Rapes Woman for Rejecting His Sexual Advances 
3 
Watch: This Instagram Is Dedicated to Bringing You Cats Behaving Like Melodramatic Humans 
4 
Watch: These Clothes Perfectly Blend Into Landscapes 
5 
Here’s How Women Artists Are Reacting to a Donald Trump Presidency 
6 
André Leon Talley Is Leaving ‘Trumpland’ But Says Melania Trump Is a ‘Nice Person’ 
7 
This Story Will Make You Pity Tiffany Trump 
8 
The Women’s March on Washington Organized a Fleet of Buses to Get New Yorkers to D.C. 
9 
Lena Dunham: ‘I Still Haven’t Had an Abortion, But I Wish I Had’ 
10 
Kellyanne Conway Named Counselor to the President 
From Our Partners 
Man Repeller 
Sienna Miller Looks So Damn Good All the Time, Does Not… 
goop 
How to Clear Hormonal Acne 
Newser 
Study Suggests You Should Leave Your Pubic Hair Alone 
powered by
PubExchange 
Most Watched on The Cut 
The Latest on the Cut 
5 mins ago 
It’s Too Late for Shipping, So Print These Gifts Out 
Yes, it’s late, but beggars can still be choosers.   
19 mins ago 
Pretty Little Liars 
Star Troian Bellisario Opens Up About Wellness 
Bellisario talks moisturizing, sleep, and working long hours on set.   
11:17 a.m. 
This Holiday Pop-Up Is Full of Last-Minute Gifts for Your Favorite Aesthete 
Hand-painted candle shades, Susan Minot découpage, pug pillows, and more.   
10:48 a.m. 
Johnny Depp Wants Amber Heard to Pay $100,000 to Cover His Attorney Fees 
He’s reportedly asking that she pay $100,000 out of his $1 million bill.   
10:46 a.m. 
This Story Will Make You Pity Tiffany Trump 
Always the bridesmaid, never the bride.   
10:34 a.m. 
Carolina Herrera Is Suing Oscar de la Renta Over Incoming Designer Laura Kim 
Here’s why.   
10:00 a.m. 
25 Famous Women on Pregnancy 
Hillary Clinton, Beyoncé, Zadie Smith, and more celebrity moms on what it’s really like.   
9:52 a.m. 
The Pantsuit Nation Backlash Is Here, and It’s Intense 
All it took was a book deal.   
8:58 a.m. 
The Cyberbullying Gabby Douglas Experienced During the Olympics Is Horrifying 
“I’m not a target, I’m a human being.”   
8:41 a.m. 
Looks Like Kellyanne Conway Changed Her Mind About Working in the White House 
Donald Trump’s former campaign manager is going to the White House.   
4:25 a.m. 
North Carolina Lawmakers Fail to Repeal Anti-Transgender Bathroom Law 
The deal stalled over a Republican plan to impose a six-month moratorium on local ordinances barring LGBT discrimination.   
2:32 a.m. 
André Leon Talley Clarifies His Thoughts About Donald and Melania Trump 
“She’s a nice person. I do not endorse Trumpism on any level.”   
1:16 a.m. 
Katy Perry, Orlando Bloom Dressed As Mr. and Mrs. Santa Claus for a Good Cause 
The couple visited the Children’s Hospital Los Angeles.   
Yesterday at 10:14 p.m. 
This Is How Rihanna Dresses for the Holidays 
Who says Santa Claus isn’t stylish?   
Yesterday at 6:06 p.m. 
The Beyoncé-Inspired Tower Is Officially Being Built 
Not your average building.   
Yesterday at 4:50 p.m. 
Justin Bieber Indicted for Alleged 2013 Assault 
More legal trouble for music’s resident enfant terrible.   
Yesterday at 4:19 p.m. 
Florida Man Arrested for Raping Woman After Shooting Her for Rejecting Him 
Christopher William Shows was arrested December 16.   
Yesterday at 4:00 p.m. 
Is Walmart Discriminating Against Blacks by Locking Up Black Hair Products? 
Beauty products for black customers are disproportionately scrutinized.   
Yesterday at 3:49 p.m. 
Chrissy Teigen Opens Up About How Pregnancy Affected Her Body Image 
During her first photo shoot since giving birth.   
Yesterday at 3:14 p.m. 
Highly Giftable Deal of the Day: A Slouchy, Elegant Coat 
It’s plaid, but without being full-on L.L. Bean catalogue.   
connect: 
Newsletters 
| 
Facebook 
| 
Twitter 
| 
Pinterest 
| 
Instagram 
| 
RSS 
| 
Feedly 
Privacy | 
Terms | 
Sitemap | 
Media Kit | 
Ad Choices | 
About Us | 
Contacts | 
Feedback | 
We’re Hiring! 
© 2016, New York Media LLC. View all trademarks 
LOG IN 
REGISTER 
Social Account 
Facebook 
███ or 
Remember Me 
Forgot Password? 
Sign up with a social account: 
Facebook 
Don’t worry. We will
never 
post to your social media account without your permission. 
or create an account 
Female 
Male 
NYMag.com may email me about new site features and special offers. 
By creating an account, you agree with the
Terms of Service 
and Privacy Policy . 
We’ve sent a registration confirmation email to
. 
Please follow the instructions in the email within 48 hours to complete your registration. 
Forgot Your Password? 
Enter your email address or username and we’ll email instructions on how to reset your password. 
This username or email is associated with a Facebook account. 
Log in with your social account: 
Facebook 
Check Your Inbox 
We’ve sent you an email with instructions on how to reset your password. 
Choose a Username 
Your username will appear next to your comments. 
Email:
By creating a NYMag.com account, you agree with the Terms of Service 
and Privacy Policy .
You already have an account registered under
. You can link your Facebook account to your existing account. 
No, Sign In 
Welcome! You are now a registered user of NYMag.com, TheCut.com, Vulture.com, ScienceOfUs.com and GrubStreet.com. 
Want more? Subscribe to our daily newsletters. 
Daily Intelligencer 
Constant news updates on politics, business, media, and real estate. 
Vulture 
Breaking news and analysis on all the latest TV, movies, music, books, theater, and art. 
The Cut 
Get the latest fashion, beauty, and shopping news and recommendations. 
No Thanks 
We're sorry. You must confirm your registration within 48 hours of submitting your registration request. Please
register 
again. 
You are already registered. Please
log in . 
Reset Your Password 
Enter a new password 
Your password has been successfully changed. 
Please
log in . 
SECURITY WARNING: Please treat the URL above as you would your password and do not share it with anyone. See the Facebook Help Center 
for more information.   
SECURITY WARNING: Please treat the URL above as you would your password and do not share it with anyone. See the Facebook Help Center 
for more information.          0%     10%     20%     30%     40%     50%     60%     70%     80%     90%     100%